hello Ned wolf here to give you the
basics about metal drilling products
offered by Erwin industrial tools we
offer a full line of over 900 different
sizes lengths and types to support metal
drawing most metal drilling applications
involve precision holes for fasteners
and rivet installations pilot holes for
tapping threads with taps and sheet
metal screws just to name a few and
users are many from the occasional DIY
or maintenance repair operations often
called MRO automotive commercial
contractors and metal fabricators of all
types let's begin with some metal drill
bit design requirements all general
purpose metal cutting drill bits
sometimes called twist drills are made
of special heat-resistant alloy cutting
tool steel called high speed steel most
drill bits experience that buildup of
heat at the drill bit tip during metal
drilling applications therefore the use
of heat resistant high speed steel is
necessary to withstand the higher
drilling temperatures reached in many
metal drilling situations some metal
materials are softer such as soft
aluminum or copper and are easier to
drill through other metals like
stainless steel are harder and more
difficult to drill naturally higher
quality drill bits with more design
features are required to drill into
these and similar alloy metal materials
more on that later let's focus on some
basic drill bit features and benefits
popular drill bit shanks for portable
electric cordless and stationary drill
presses are 38 inch and half inch
straight shank also called round shank
we also offer three eighths inch and
half inch reduced shank bits using a
reduced shank such as a three-eighths
provide the ability to use a half-inch
hole size drill bit within a
three-eighths capacity power drill as an
example some Erlin bits also have
flattened shank designs that aid in
reducing drill bit shanks from slipping
in the drill chuck jaws allowing better
gripping to the flat sides this is a
great feature for portable drill users
all twist drills have flutes
remove hot metal chips and debris as the
drill bit is fed into the metal
materials the length of this flute also
determines how deep the drill bit can
drill for example a six inch long drill
bit with a 4-inch flute length can
handle drilling into four inches of
solid material drill bit tips are
precision ground to extreme accuracy
necessary for metalworking applications
Irwin offers three different tip designs
or tip geometries that handle a broad
range of metal materials choosing the
correct drill bit tip geometry can
determine overall performance and metal
materials the two most common erlend tip
designs are 118 degrees standard point
and 135 degrees split point tip designs
the 118 degree drill bit tip is general
purpose and durable but tends to skate
or walk during use with handheld
portable drills therefore it requires a
center punch indentation or small pilot
hole to guide the tip accurately through
a metal or curved surface like metal
piping standard 118 degrees pointed
drill bits are the most affordable and
best suited for softer metals plastic
and wood type materials 135 degrees
split point is an industrial type drill
bit that has two additional cutting
edges at the very point there is no need
to use a center punch or pilot hole
since the 135 degree pointcuts
immediately on contact the bit requires
fifty percent less drilling pressure and
handles a broader range of metal
drilling applications these bits cost
fifteen to thirty five percent more to
purchase but are ideal for saving time
and effort when accuracy and speed are
important Irwin offers a unique tip
called turbo max it's ground in shape
like an M or a w designed for drilling
fast and cleaner holes into sheet
metal's urban offers metal drill bits
and fractional and wire gauge whole
sizes wire gauge also called numbered
drills use a wire gauge sizing
specification that provides precise hole
sizes for industrial use such as pilot
goals for thread tapping Erlin offers a
variety of drill bit lengths to meet
many application needs of reach rigidity
or special drilling depth needs common
drill bit lengths are jabbers length
which refers to popular standardized
drill bit flute and overall length
specifications used by most end users
today screw machine also called stubby
length and double ended drill bits are
thirty to forty percent shorter in
length and jabbers length they increased
rigidity and durability for heavy-duty
and abusive drilling her one offers both
in 135 degrees split pointed tips
extension or aircraft six inch and 12
inch drill bits are needed for extra
reach into tight space restrictive areas
or reach through long empty spaces Irwin
offers both with a hundred and
thirty-five degrees split pointed tips
mechanics length drill bits are similar
to stubbies and that they are fifteen
percent shorter for durability used in
automotive repair tasks Irwin offers
premium quality titanium nitride coated
and cobalt high-speed steel drill bit
lines they both have 135 degrees split
pointed tip designs for accurate and
fast penetrations into harder metals the
real benefit of these bits is providing
extra bit life when handling higher
drilling temperatures from harder alloy
steel material or repetitive production
hole drilling needs titanium nitride
coating reduces heat buildup whereas
cobalt high-speed steel can tolerate
higher drawing temperatures at the drill
bit tip both offer enhanced performance
in terms of extra life for hard to drill
materials we'll have more on this in a
future video